Add documents to describe how to run e2e tests on an existing K8s cluster (#3045)
antrea-io/antrea: test/e2e/README.md

If you need to test an updated version of Antrea, just run
`./infra/vagrant/push_antrea.sh` and then run the tests again.

### Running the tests with remote (existing K8s cluster)

If you already have a K8s cluster, these steps should be followed to run the e2e tests.

First, you should provide the ssh information for each Node in the cluster. Here is an example:

```text
Host <Control-Plane-Node>
    HostName <Control-Plane-IP>
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
Host <Worker-Node>
    HostName <Worker-Node-IP>
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
```

> Make sure the `Host` entry for each Node matches the K8s Node name. The `Port` is the port uses by the ssh service on the Node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure the `Host` entry for each Node matches the K8s Node name. The `Port` is the port used by the ssh service on the Node.
```

Besides the configuration of the ssh connection, make sure you have added the public key to `authorized_keys` of each Node and set `PubkeyAuthentication` and `RSAAuthentication` of ssh service to `yes`.

Second, when running the e2e tests, kubeconfig of the cluster will be used, so make sure you have copied it to the right location, e.g. `$HOME/.kube/config` or the path specified by `-remote.kubeconfig`.

> Third, the e2e test framework will ensure that Antrea has been deployed to the cluster by applying the deployment manifest, so the `antrea.yml` should be put under the `/home/<user>` directory of the control-plane Node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Third, the e2e test framework will ensure that Antrea has been deployed to the cluster by applying the deployment manifests, so the `antrea.yml` (and `antrea-windows.yml` if the cluster has Windows Nodes) should be put under the `/home/<user>` directory of the control-plane Node.
```

> Third, the e2e test framework will ensure that Antrea has been deployed to the cluster by applying the deployment manifests, so the `antrea.yml` (and `antrea-windows.yml` if the cluster has Windows Nodes) should be put under the `$HOME` directory of the control-plane Node.

Reviewer 2: these lines are not wrapped correctly yet

Author: Fixed

Now you can start e2e tests using the command below:

```bash
go test -v antrea.io/antrea/test/e2e -provider=remote
```

> You can specify ssh and kubeconfig locations with `-remote.sshconfig` and `-remote.kubeconfig`. The default location of `-remote.sshconfig` is $HOME/.ssh/config and the default location of `-remote.kubeconfig` is $HOME/.kube/config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify ssh and kubeconfig locations with `-remote.sshconfig` and `-remote.kubeconfig`. The default location of `-remote.sshconfig` is `$HOME/.ssh/config` and the default location of `-remote.kubeconfig` is `$HOME/.kube/config`.
```

```bash
kind load docker-image projects.registry.vmware.com/antrea/antrea-ubuntu:latest --name <kind_cluster_name>
```
## Running the e2e tests on existing k8s cluster

> If you already have a k8s cluster and push antrea on it , the following steps should be done for running the e2e tests or other kinds of tests.

Reviewer 3: add a new line after the chapter title.

> First , the configuration of the k8s cluster is detected and used when running the tests , so the `config` file of the cluster should be copied to the certain place:

Reviewer 3: remove the blankspace between First and ,

Reviewer 3: change all k8s to K8s, K8s is the correct abbreviation for Kubernetes.

```bash

> cd <directory containing this README file>/infra/vagrant/playbook

Reviewer 3: you can change `<directory containing this README file>` to `./test/e2e`, we can assume that user is in antrea root directory.

mkdir -p kube

> sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf kube/config

Reviewer 3: I don't think you can assume all existing K8s clusters has this file, and one question about `kube`, should it be `.kube` or `kube`?

```
You need to copy the configuration information to the `kube/config` in order to provide the cluster information for the tests.

> Second , you should create the `ssh-config` and add the ssh information of each nodes in the cluster to it. You can add the ssh information like the example below:

Reviewer 3: add a new line after this.

```bash
Host Control-Plane-Node
    HostName 127.0.0.1
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
Host Worker-Node
    HostName <NodeIP>
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa

> ```

Reviewer 3: add a new line here.

The example above is to launch the ssh connection from the `Control-Plane-Node` to itself and the `Worker-Node` when launching the tests on `Control-Plane-Node` . You should make sure `Host` of each node must be the same as the corresponding node name . The `Port` is the default port of ssh service . As for the `IdentityFile` , add the location of the private key (`id_rsa` in example) to it.

> Besides , `ssh-config` should be moved to the certain directory:

Reviewer 3: ditto

```bash

> mv ssh-config <directory containing this README file>/infra/vagrant

Reviewer 3: ditto

```

Except the configuration of the ssh connection , you should also make sure to add the public key to `authorized_keys` of each nodes and set `PubkeyAuthentication` and `RSAAuthentication` in `sshd_config` to be `yes` . 

> Finally , after configuring the two steps above ,  you can start e2e or other tests using the command below:

Reviewer 3: ditto

kind load docker-image projects.registry.vmware.com/antrea/antrea-ubuntu:latest --name <kind_cluster_name>
```

## Running the e2e tests on existing K8s cluster

> If you already have a K8s cluster and push antrea on it, the following steps should be done for running the e2e tests or other kinds of tests.

Reviewer 4: `push antea on it` -> want to push antea on it?

Author: The condition should be the antrea has been pushed on the cluster, maybe the statement is not clear.

> If you already have a K8s cluster and push antrea on it, the following steps should be done for running the e2e tests or other kinds of tests.

Reviewer 3: ` or other kinds of tests.` should be removed, here we focus on e2e test.

> You should create the `config` file under the default ssh directory and add the ssh information of each nodes in the cluster to it. You can add the ssh information like the example below:

Reviewer 3: `each nodes` to `each node`

```bash
Host Control-Plane-Node

>     HostName 127.0.0.1

Reviewer 3: why this IP is 127.0.0.1? should it be the external IP of control plane node?

    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
Host Worker-Node
    HostName <NodeIP>
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
```

The example above is to launch the ssh connection from the `Control-Plane-Node` to itself and the `Worker-Node` when launching the tests on `Control-Plane-Node`. You should make sure `Host` of each node must be the same as the corresponding node name. The `Port` is the default port of ssh service. As for the `IdentityFile`, add the location of the private key (`id_rsa` in example) to it.

> Except the configuration of the ssh connection, make sure you have added the public key to `authorized_keys` of each nodes and set `PubkeyAuthentication` and `RSAAuthentication` of ssh service to be `yes`. 

Reviewer 3: change `Except` to `Beside`, `each nodes` to `each node`,  'to be `yes`' to 'to `yes`'

kind load docker-image projects.registry.vmware.com/antrea/antrea-ubuntu:latest --name <kind_cluster_name>
```

## Running the e2e tests on existing K8s cluster

> If you already have a K8s cluster on which antrea has been pushed, the following steps should be done for running the e2e tests.

Reviewer 3: antrea -> Antrea

> First, you should create the `config` file under the default ssh directory and add the ssh information of each node in the cluster to it. You can add the ssh information like the example below:

Reviewer 3: I think there is an option to allow user to pass the path of ssh, please also add it here or below in command line --remote.sshconfig=$path, so user can learn that no need to be default ssh path, if they place file in other directory, please help to verify it. thanks.

Author: OK，I will have a try.

```bash
Host Control-Plane-Node
    HostName <Control-Plane-IP>
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
Host Worker-Node
    HostName <Worker-Node-IP>
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
```

> Make sure `Host` of each node must be the same as the corresponding node name. The `Port` is the default port of ssh service. As for the `IdentityFile`, add the location of the private key (`id_rsa` in example) to it.

Reviewer 3: please replace all node to Node, and make the first letter upper case if there is any K8s resource name.

Beside the configuration of the ssh connection, make sure you have added the public key to `authorized_keys` of each node and set `PubkeyAuthentication` and `RSAAuthentication` of ssh service to `yes`.

> Second, when running the e2e tests, the configuration information of cluster will be used, so make sure you have copied the `config` file of the cluster to your localhost under the `/home/<user>/.kube` directory.

Reviewer 3: I think there is an option to allow user to pass the path of kubeconfig, please also add it here or below in command line `--remote.sshconfig=$path`, so  user can learn that no need to be `/home/<user>/.kube` if they place file in other directory.

> Second, when running the e2e tests, the configuration information of cluster will be used, so make sure you have copied the `config` file of the cluster to your localhost under the `/home/<user>/.kube` directory.

Reviewer 3: there is aslo option for kubeconfig `--remote.kubeconfig`, you can check the source code here https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/main/test/e2e/providers/remote.go#L28-L32

kind load docker-image projects.registry.vmware.com/antrea/antrea-ubuntu:latest --name <kind_cluster_name>
```

## Running the e2e tests on an existing K8s cluster

> If you already have a K8s cluster on which Antrea has been deployed, the following steps should be done for running the e2e tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you already have a K8s cluster on which Antrea has been deployed, these steps should be followed to run the e2e tests.
```

> If you already have a K8s cluster on which Antrea has been deployed, the following steps should be done for running the e2e tests.

Reviewer 2: technically, you do not need to deploy Antrea to the cluster ahead of time, since the test cases will take care of it.

> First, you should config the ssh information for each Node in the cluster. Here is an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, you should provide the ssh information for each Node in the cluster using an [SSH client configuration file](https://linux.die.net/man/5/ssh_config). Here is an example:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```text
```

Host <Control-Plane-Node>
    HostName <Control-Plane-IP>
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
Host <Worker-Node>
    HostName <Worker-Node-IP>
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
```

> 

Reviewer 2: some of the lines below are too long; we typically wrap around 80 to 100 characters

> Make sure `Host` of each Node must be the same as the corresponding Node name. The `Port` is the default port of ssh service. As for the `IdentityFile`, add the location of the private key (`id_rsa` in example) to it.

Reviewer 2: Make sure the `Host` entry for each Node matches the K8s Node name. The `Port` is the port uses by the ssh service on the Node.

Besides the configuration of the ssh connection, make sure you have added the public key to `authorized_keys` of each Node and set `PubkeyAuthentication` and `RSAAuthentication` of ssh service to `yes`.

Second, when running the e2e tests, kubeconfig of the cluster will be used, so make sure you have copied it to the right location, e.g. `$HOME/.kube/config` or the path specified by `-remote.kubeconfig`.

> Third, considering the e2e test will check whether Antrea has been deployed to the cluster, the `antrea.yml` should be put under the `/home/<user>` directory of the control-plane Node.

Reviewer 2: > considering the e2e test will check whether Antrea has been deployed to the cluster

this is incorrect, rather: "the e2e test framework will ensure that Antrea has been deployed to the cluster by applying the deployment manifest"

kind load docker-image projects.registry.vmware.com/antrea/antrea-ubuntu:latest --name <kind_cluster_name>
```

> ## Running the e2e tests on existing K8s cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running the e2e tests on an existing K8s cluster
```

> If you already have a K8s cluster on which Antrea has been pushed, the following steps should be done for running the e2e tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have a K8s cluster on which Antrea has been deployed, the following steps should be done for running the e2e tests.
```

Why did you use "push"? I guess you are referring to the CI process but since this section is about manually testing so I suggest "deploy".

> First, you should create the ssh config file and add the ssh information of each Node in the cluster to it. You can add the ssh information like the example below:

Reviewer 5: Please wrap the lines to 80 chars like existing content.

```bash

> Host Control-Plane-Node

Reviewer 5: Since this is placeholder like Control-Plane-IP, please use `< >` to indicate it.

    HostName <Control-Plane-IP>
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
Host Worker-Node
    HostName <Worker-Node-IP>
    Port 22
    user ubuntu
    IdentityFile /home/ubuntu/.ssh/id_rsa
```

Make sure `Host` of each Node must be the same as the corresponding Node name. The `Port` is the default port of ssh service. As for the `IdentityFile`, add the location of the private key (`id_rsa` in example) to it.

> Beside the configuration of the ssh connection, make sure you have added the public key to `authorized_keys` of each Node and set `PubkeyAuthentication` and `RSAAuthentication` of ssh service to `yes`.

Reviewer 5: s/Beside/Besides

> Second, when running the e2e tests, the configuration information of cluster will be used, so make sure you have copied the config file of the cluster to your localhost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, when running the e2e tests, kubeconfig of the cluster will be used, so make sure you have copied it to the right location, e.g. `$HOME/.kube/config` or will use it directly from `/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf`.
```

I guess you are talking about kubeconfig. Please correct me if I'm wrong.

Reviewer 5: I don't find the subject of the statement "or will use it directly from `/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf`", and it doesn't seem necessary. Maybe "or the path specified by `-remote.kubeconfig`".

> Third, considering the e2e test will check whether Antrea has been pushed on the cluster, the `antrea.yml` should be put under the `/home/<user>` directory of the main Node.

Reviewer: ditto

Reviewer: main -> control plane

Reviewer 5: s/pushed on/deployed to/
s/main/control-plane/

> After configuring the steps above, you can start e2e tests using the command below:

Reviewer 5: "configuring steps" doesn't sound correct, maybe just "Now you can start ..." to be concise.

Author: Fixed

```bash
go test -v antrea.io/antrea/test/e2e -provider=remote \
    -remote.sshconfig=<location of ssh config file> \
    -remote.kubeconfig=<location of the cluster config file>
```

The default location of `-remote.sshconfig` is `/home/<user>/.ssh/config` and the default location of `-remote.kubeconfig` is `/home/<user>/.kube/config`. If you want to run the tests without the `-remote.sshconfig` and `-remote.kubeconfig` like the command below:

```bash
go test -v antrea.io/antrea/test/e2e -provider=remote

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think you need to talk about both with config options and without config options in detail. 

I suggest:

With above configuration, you can start e2e tests using the command below:

go test -v antrea.io/antrea/test/e2e -provider=remote

You can specify ssh and kubeconfig locations with `-remote.sshconfig` and `-remote.sshconfig`. The default location of `-remote.sshconfig` is `$HOME/.ssh/config` and the default location of `-remote.kubeconfig` is `$HOME/.kube/config`.

Author: Fixed

* `performance.http.concurrency (int)`: Number of allowed concurrent http requests (default 1)
* `performance.http.requests (int)`: Total Number of http requests
* `performance.http.policy_rules (int)`: Number of CIDRs in the network policy

> * `performance.realize.timeout (duration)`: Timeout of the realization of network policies (default 5m0s)

Reviewer 5: You removed the EOF this time. Can you keep it unchanged? The original EOF was correct. In https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3045#discussion_r769430101, I was only asking to remove the extra ending line as there were 2.
